Let us jump into component fundamentals.
So we're gonna go through
just a few slides.
And then we're gonna
get back into the code.
So components are the fundamental building
block of your Angular application.
And when you understand components,
I think on the surface,
they're deceptively simple.
But what's interesting is it really
informs your architecture and
I'm really wanting to like jump ahead and
start talking about component
driven architecture.
But we're just going to
practice restraint and
we're going to take this slow, methodical.
And I would say one of the big
things that I will bring out, and
I'll talk about this a bit later, is that
there's been a fundamental shift in,
I think the mentality of all
frameworks around components.
And before when you're doing
like jQuery applications,
there really was no structure.
There was no mechanism for, I'm creating
this state and I wanna use it over and
over and over.
And really even in AngularJS
there was a very little,
just a hint of that but not really.
Then react came and I would say I think
one of the greatest things that that
react did is really put component-driven
architecture at the forefront
of people's minds and how they think
about building front end applications.
And so with Angular,
components became front and center.
And this is anything that a user sees.
It goes into a component.
And so let's talk about components.
We'll talk about the anatomy of a
component and we'll start to build on it.
So the anatomy of a component
is it's fairly simple,
that you have two main parts,
is you have a component class,
which is just a yes six class.
That's it, as you define the class.
And then you export it, so it's available.
Then you have an HTML template,
nothing more than HTML.
And so kind of in and
of themselves that there's nothing Angular
specific about them until
you introduce metadata.
And what that does is that
decorates the class and
tells the class this is how you're going
to operate in the context of Angular.
So it kind of is responsible for gluing
the template and the class together.
And then from there, we use property
bindings and event bindings to
communicate from the class to the template
and from the template to the class.
Now I do wanna say this.
And I'm trying not to
get on a Soapbox here.
But a lot of times, a fundamental
pitfall that I see when people
come from a very classical
learning environment, for
instance like Java is a really,
really, I think kinda one of the main
perpetrators of this is that when
you see class or you see a class,
it's this opportunity to inherit
it an inherit it, inherit it.
And I think that's a very slippery
slope and I was really resistant
because I prefer functional
programmatic concepts is I was
resistant to even just having
the concept of a class in JavaScript.
But what I began to realize is
just because you have a class,
that doesn't necessarily
equal inheritance.
And so because we're using classes,
think of those as just like a container
mechanism, a place that you can
kind of put things.- I'd really think
of classes is a data structure.
And so what I have seen in some client
engagements is you take a Java or
.NET developer who's learning Angular,
and you'll see a component that's
inherited from another component that
inherits from another component which now
what you're doing is you're tightly
coupling everything together.
And when you make a change
to one class upstream,
it has adverse effects downstream.
So classes I just recommend really
staying away from inheritance.
I think that's a really, really slippery
slope, but as an organizational
mechanisms or really I think of it as a
data structure, it's actually quite nice.
So what I want to call out here,
again I'm trying to avoid
the slides cuz I just
wanna do code,
I wanna jump into the codes.
So let's let's look at
the code that we generated or
rather let's hop into our start branch,
because we're gonna start building,
let's do that.
So this angular workshop
project that I generated,
I'm not gonna throw it away,
but I don't need it.
So instead,
I'm just going back into the Angular
nine fundamentals, and
I'm on the start branch.
So hopefully you've
downloaded the repo and
let's hop into 00 start.
And let's start to just
kind of step into the code,
if you are not on 00 start branch,
so I'm gonna hop back into master.
So get checkout master.
Oops, ha, there we go.
All right, so you can see, I'm on master.
And so per chance it's like,
well how do I get onto the start branch?
You're just going to go get
checkout 00 dash start.
And so my apologies in everyone
to assume prior knowledge.
So now you should be on the start branch.
Okay from the start branch,
we can hop into the code,
which is I'm using VS
code as my editor and,
Let's start with the component class.
So what I'm going to do,
the narrative arc that we're going to
follow is I'm going to start with a class.
I'm going to explain what's
happening kind of the pieces.
Then we're going to hop into the template,
and
I'm going to explain how that works and
how that's wired together.
And then we'll start to build on that.
So in our app component, what you have is,
You have a class here, and
then you have this decorator.
So I'm just going to delete this for
just a moment.
And at this point in our app component,
outside of this
import at the top,
there's nothing Angular about this.
And so it's really interesting that
you can actually write a lot of just
TypeScript classes or a lot of times I
write functionality in TypeScript, and
then I just move it into Angular.
And so we have properties, methods, etc.
And then on top of that,
we have our metadata.
And so what the metadata is,
is it is a function, so
this is actually part of TypeScript,
it's not Angular,
that it's a function that gets called and
you can actually
create your own decorators
that when it's being compiled,
it hits this decorator right here.
And it then calls this function passing
in this parameter, which in this
case is a component configuration object
and then it performs some functionality.
And so within this component decorator,
we're going to tell
angular how we want to decorate
this class to make it available or
to make it function as an angular
component within our application.
So the big one is the selector.
And so in this case,
we're gonna app route.
And what this does is by your selector,
you're able to attach this
component into the DOM.
And so if we go to index.html,
you'll notice here
that we have app root,
this element here, so
this is obviously not
a standard HTML element.
But because we're defining it here,
and when it compiles,
we now are able to add
that to our application.
So the question is how do I get
a component into an application?
Well, via the selectors, so
you take the selector and
then you're able to just add
that like a normal HTML element.
Now the other few things
I'll add is the template,
which is gonna be app component.html and
style URLs.
And so this is interesting
because this is an array and
you're able to actually stack your styles.
I've never had a reason to do that
in reality, but it is an option.
And so the thing with component classes
is if you understand JavaScript and
especially ES6, I think your
understanding of the components
themselves are pretty straightforward,
like you're there.
It's a very short leap,
because we're leveraging essentially
the native mechanisms of JavaScript and
TypeScript.
And then in our component,
what we have is just an HTML,
and you'll notice here that we have these
elements, mat hyphen toolbar, etc.,
and these are just us pulling in Angular
material components into our application.
And so this is how again you essentially
get a component typically to render.
Now you can do this via routes,
that is another way to do that.
But more often than not, you will put
a component on the page
via the app selector.
So let me just run this real quick.
So hopping back into the command line,
it's npn run server all.
Remember, the reason why we're doing
that is because we're running like
a small note server with a REST API in the
background that we will use eventually.
And so as this is running,
once this pulls up,
then we'll hop into the page and
we'll start to see this.
And then I can start to kind of add on to
this and we can kind of step through this.
So, compiled successfully.
I'm gonna hop into the browser.
And let me create a new window here, okay?
There we go.